Meeting on October 8th 2019, 18:00Z

# Attendees

- Jon Skeet
- Greg Shackles
- Tim Seaward
- Fredrik Eilertsen
- Jonathan Mezach
- Scott Sauber
- Stuart Lang

# Recording

[Video on .NET Foundation Members Site](https://dotnetfoundation.sharepoint.com/:v:/r/sites/AllMembers/Shared%20Documents/Action%20Groups/Technical%20Review/Meeting%202019-10-08.mp4?csf=1&e=OCWFie)

(Please use your members site login when prompted.)

# Aim

Discuss the [proposed roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/dotnet-foundation/teams/technical-review/discussions/1)

# Notes

(Somewhat edited for coherence.)

## Wording around Microsoft

Jon: Reading it back, it sounds quite Microsoft-oriented right now.
Is that just reflective of reality? Any suggested alternatives for
rewording when creating the next draft?

Jonathan: Perhaps "Corporate sponsors"?

Jon: That's better, but I want to emphasize "organizations
contributing significant ecosystem components that affect many
developers" - breadth more than depth.

Jonathan: "framework and runtime level decision makers"

Jon: Sounds good to me.

## What kind of guidance can we give?

Jon: Does the bullet point of "Provide technical guidance for Open
Source contributors, in conjunction with the guidance authored by
Microsoft." make sense? Effectively, we acknowledge that Microsoft
already provides a lot of guidance, and we want to give feedback on
that... while separately providing guidance that MS may not want to
host.

Jonathan: Not as written, but the explanation makes sense. We should
rewrite that part. Also, We should avoid creating conflicting
guidance.

Jon: That might happen anyway, but let's have an explicit *aim* to
avoid doing that. Sometimes we might want to knowingly provide other
options beyond the ones MS is promoting.

Greg: Let's not just promote Foundation projects. It may be tough to
draw the line though. We can't include everything.

Jon: No, we don't want open lists - but it's reasonable to recommend
things we've used. The Foundation should be about promoting the .NET
Open Source ecosystem, not just promoting projects that have opted
into it.

Greg: Endorsements may be particularly useful for small projects.

## Gap analysis (what's missing that Open Source projects need?)

Jon: Motivation for this: Noda Time has far too much code that's
unrelated to dates and times. Version change detection, extracting
snippets for the documentation, etc.

Jonathan: That could be a good introduction to this working group's
purpose in general.

Tim: Another example from this weekend, starting a new project:
there's nowhere to go to find out what to use for aspect X of a
project.

Stuart: We don't want to provide "one best way" of doing things
though.

General discussion: This was the aspect of the meeting the attendees
were most enthusiastic about, to the extent that I (Jon) lost track
of notes. There were a few broad ideas:

- Creation of an "Open Source Toolkit" (mixture of tools and
documentation) to help projects get started.
- Where things are missing, an "up for grabs" but for projects.
- The Foundation helping to find multiple projects which are each
  addressing just part of a problem, and potentially helping them
  come together. (Often these tools aren't an integral part of
  the project itself - again, as per Noda Time's build tools.)
  
## Bridging projects
  
There was some discussion around `Index`/`Range`,
`IAsyncEnumerable<>` etc. Does the Foundation want to be in the
business of owning "support libraries" that Microsoft isn't
investing in?

The general consensus was that we don't want to get into significant
implementation that would require maintenance. But anything which is
"near trivial" could be useful - and promoting the Foundation's
bridging package could avoid fragmentation. (For things like
attributes for nullability etc, we can end up with lots of packages
which are broadly equivalent, but we want to avoid applications
depending on more than one of them.)

This may be something that the Technical Review working group
surfaces, wihtout owning the projects.

## Actual "review"?

There was less enthusiasm around the initial idea of "technical
review" (e.g. of Microsoft's plans for .NET 5), partly because we
weren't sure how it would work.

# Action items

- Jon to write up these notes and get the recording hosted.
- Jon to rewrite the proposed roadmap, and create a PR for review.
- Jon to contact Immo Landwerth to see if there's enthusiasm
from the Microsoft side for technical review from the Foundation.
